.TH "SOPLOS-GRUB-EDITOR" "1" "2026-01-10" "Soplos Linux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
soplos-grub-editor \- Advanced graphical GRUB2 configuration editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B soplos-grub-editor
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B soplos-grub-editor
is a comprehensive GTK3 graphical editor for GRUB2 bootloader configuration.
It provides an intuitive interface for:
.IP \[bu] 2
General boot configuration (timeout, default entry, resolution).
.IP \[bu]
Installation and management of GRUB themes.
.IP \[bu]
Custom background and color settings.
.IP \[bu]
Kernel parameter configuration.
.IP \[bu]
Boot entry management.
.IP \[bu]
OS detection settings.
.P
The application requires root privileges and automatically elevates using pkexec.
Compatible with GNOME, KDE Plasma, and XFCE desktop environments.
.SH OPTIONS
The application has no command-line options. All configuration is done through the graphical interface.
.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B General Tab
Configure timeout, default boot entry, screen resolution, kernel parameters, OS detection, recovery options, and UUID settings.
.TP
.B Boot Entries Tab
View and manage GRUB boot entries.
.TP
.B Appearance Tab
Install/remove themes, set backgrounds, configure menu colors.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/default/grub
Main GRUB configuration file modified by this application.
.TP
.I /boot/grub/themes/
Directory containing installed GRUB themes.
.TP
.I /usr/share/soplos-grub-editor/
Application resources directory.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SOPLOS_THEME_TYPE
Set to 'dark' or 'light' to override automatic theme detection.
.TP
.B GTK_THEME
Override GTK theme name when running as root.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Sergi Perich <info@soploslinux.com> for the Soplos Linux project.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Sergi Perich.
License: GPL-3.0-or-later <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR update-grub (8),
.BR grub-mkconfig (8),
.BR soplos-welcome (1)
